June 23, 1912 - Alan Mathison Turing was born in London, England.

1927 - At age 15, Turing was already solving advanced mathematical problems without having studied elementary calculus.

 1936 - Turing published "On Computable Numbers, with an Application to the Entscheidungsproblem".
    Turing created an abstract "universal computing machine"; a device which is capable of solving any mathematical computation if the problem was represented as an algorithm. This is now known as a Turing machine.
        Turing proved that the Entscheidungsproblem (decision problem) was unsolvable, by proving that it is impossible to decide algorithmically whether or not a Turing machine will ever halt.

(1939 - 1945) - During WW2, Turing had a huge role in helping the Allies win the war by creating the Bombe, a machine which deciphered German ciphers.

(1945 - 1947) - He worked on the design of the ACE (Automatic Computing Engine).
    February 19, 1946 - Presented a paper which was the first detailed design of a stored - program computer.

1946 - Turing was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) by King George VI because of his help and services offered during WW2.

October 1950 - Turing published "Computing Machinery and Intelligence".
    Turing proposed an experiment which is now known as the Turing test. The Turing test is now a standard for determining whether or not a computer can be considered "intelligent". A computer can be considered intelligent if a human talking to it cannot tell that it is a computer.
        CAPTCHA is a reverse Turing test. The computer has to decide whether or not the user is human.

1952 - Turing was dating a man, Arnold Murray. Murray's friend burglarized Turing's home, and when Turing called the police, he admitted he was gay, in a time where being queer was punishable by law. Turing had to decide between going to prison or probation; he chose probation. Part of Turing's probation agreement was to receive injections of a synthetic estrogen to reduce his libido.
    Due to his conviction, his security clearance to work with the British government was removed, and he was denied entry into the United States.

1953 - Turing was credited with creating the first computer chess program.
    He wrote the algorithm in 1948, but a computer powerful enough to run the algorithm did not exist. Instead, Turing played the game by hand against a colleague of his, simulating the computer's would-be moves.

June 7, 1954 - At age 41, after suffering for two years because of hormonal injections (synthetic estrogen), Turing died from cyanide poising. It is highly suspected that he committed suicide.

December 24, 20013 - Queen Elizabeth II officially pardoned Turing.

January 31, 2017 - The Alan Turing law passed. The Alan Turing law is an informal name for a law in the United Kingdom which serves as an amnesty law to retroactively pardon men who were convicted because of homosexual laws that are now outlawed.

A man provided with paper, pencil, and rubber, and subject to strict discipline, is in effect a universal machine.
